gcp doc only app - Batch 1 (#2978)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/integrations/google/cloud-datastore.md

---
id: cloud-datastore
title: Google Cloud Datastore
sidebar_label: Google Cloud Datastore
description: Learn about the Sumo Logic collection process for the Google Cloud Datastore service.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/google/GoogleCloudDatastore.png')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="50"/>

Datastore is a highly scalable NoSQL database for your web and mobile applications. For more details, refer to the [GCP documentation](https://cloud.google.com/datastore/docs)

## Log and Metric types

* [Google Cloud Metrics](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp)
* [Platform Logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/appflow/latest/userguide/monitoring-cloudwatch.html)
* [Audit Logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/appflow/latest/userguide/appflow-cloudtrail-logs.html)

## Setup

You can collect the logs and metrics for Sumo Logic's Google Cloud Datastore integration by following the below steps.

### Configure logs collection

> * Collect **Audit Logs** using [Google Cloud Platform source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/google-cloud-platform-source). Refer to the [permissions and roles](https://cloud.google.com/datastore/docs/audit-logging#audit_log_permissions) required for accessing audit logs. To enable logging for Google Datastore refer to [Google documentation](https://cloud.google.com/datastore/docs/audit-logging#enabling_audit_logging). For more detail, on Datastore operations being audited refer to [audited operations](https://cloud.google.com/datastore/docs/audit-logging#audited_operations). While creating the sync in GCP, as part of the **Choose logs to include in sink** section you can use the following query:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Collect **Audit Logs** using the [Google Cloud Platform source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/google-cloud-platform-source). These Audit Logs can be accessed based on the [permissions and roles](https://cloud.google.com/datastore/docs/audit-logging#audit_log_permissions) required for accessing audit logs. To enable logging for Google Datastore, refer to [Google documentation](https://cloud.google.com/datastore/docs/audit-logging#enabling_audit_logging). For more detail on Datastore operations being audited, refer to [audited operations](https://cloud.google.com/datastore/docs/audit-logging#audited_operations). While creating the sync in GCP, as part of the **Choose logs to include in sink** section you can use the following query:
```

   ```sql
   resource.type=(datastore_database or datastore_index)
   ```

> * Collect **Platform Logs** using [Google Cloud Platform source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/google-cloud-platform-source). Datastore platform logs include logs related to datastore database and datastore index. Query to get these logs is same to that of Audit logs for Datastore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Collect **Platform Logs** using the [Google Cloud Platform source](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/google-cloud-platform-source). Datastore platform logs include logs related to datastore database and datastore index. Query to get these logs is same to that of Audit logs for Datastore.
```

### Configure metrics collection

> * Collect **GCP Metrics** using the [GCP Metric](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/) source. Note that in the Services dropdown, you'll need to select **Datastore**. For Google Datastore metrics and dimensions, refer to [Google Datastore metrics](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-datastore).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Collect **GCP Metrics** using the [GCP Metric](/docs/send-data/hosted-collectors/google-source/gcp-metrics-source/) source. Make sure that you select **Datastore** from the **Services** dropdown. For Google Datastore metrics and dimensions, refer to [Google Datastore metrics](https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/api/metrics_gcp#gcp-datastore).
```
